Learning goals:

1. Provide an overview of Excel automation and its benefits.
2. Differentiate the ways of working with Excel files and DataTables in UiPath Studio.
3. Distinguish between the categories of activities used when working with Excel files: Workbook activities and Excel App Integration activities, and use them appropriately.
4. Differentiate between the design experiences available in UiPath Studio for Excel automation and identify their features.
5. Explain what are DataTables and how they play a crucial role in automating Excel.
6. Use the Workbook Activities available in UiPath Studio.
7. Use the Basic activities of DataTable in UiPath Studio.
8. Use Excel App integration activities in UiPath Studio.
9. Use CSV activities in UiPath Studio.



Excel automation:
- Microsoft Excel automation is a technique used to automate repetitive or time-consuming tasks in Microsoft Excel using software tools or coding techniques. 


Two ways of accessing and manipulating workbooks/Excel is studio:
1. Workbook of File Aceess Level
2. Excel or Excel App integration


Excel installation required:
1. Workbook activities: No
2. App Integration Activities: Yes


Compatibility:
1. Workbook activities: .xlx and .xls
2. App Integration Activities: .csv, .xlsx, .xls, and .xlsm


Functionality:
1. Workbook activities: Limited to basic Activities.
2. App Integration Activities: Wide range of activities.


Advantages:
1. Workbook activities: Can be executed in the background without opening an Excel application. Faster and more reliable as a result.
2. App Integration Activities: Can perform wide range of operations. Including advanced features like macros and pivot tables.

Rant:

"Which of the following statements is true regarding Workbook activities and Excel App Integration activities when working with Excel files? "

"Can be executed in the background without opening the Excel application, resulting in faster and more reliable operations"

Two types of design experiences:
1. Modern
2. Classic


Three options in regards to Excel experiences in the Project Settings:
1. This option applies the default design experience set at the studio level. If the studio-level design experience is set to Modern, then this option selects Modern for Excel activities in the project.
2. UseClassic
3. UseModern


Differences between Modern and Classic experiences in Excel automation:
1. Workbook or File Access Level: Offers the same set of activites in both the modern and classic experiences
2. Excel or Excel App integration: Offers different sets of activites depending whether you are using the modern or classic design experiences.
3. Modern activities support interacting with Excel form the Plus menu option in the designer panel.

Modern design experience is recommended.


Data tables:
- Data table is a type of data structure used to organize and store data in a tabular form, with rows representing records and columns representing the attributes or fields of each record. It is similar to a spreadsheet in Excel, but it is more structured and can be easily manipulated programmatically. 

Why DataTables:
1. Efficient handling of large amounts of data
2. Improved data accuracy: DataTables can be used to validate data and ensure accuracy before exporting to Excel.
3. Programmatic manipulation of data: DataTables can be manipulated programmatically
4. Better data organization: DataTables can help organize data in a structured format
5. Integration with other systems: DataTables can be integrated with other systems or applications


Workbook activities include:
- Append Range Workbook: appends data to a specified range in an Excel workbook.
- Get table Range Workbook: retrieves the range of a table in an Excel workbook.
- Read Cell Workbook: reads the value of a specific cell in an Excel workbook.
- Read Cell Formula Workbook: reads the formula of a specific cell in an Excel workbook.
- Read Column Workbook: reads the values of an entire column in an Excel workbook.
- Read Range Workbook: reads the values of a specified range of cells in an Excel workbook.
- Read Row Workbook: reads the values of an entire row in an Excel workbook.
- Write Cell Workbook: writes a value to a specific cell in an Excel workbook.
- Write Range Workbook: writes data to a specified range of cells in an Excel workbook.


In the Modern Design Experience, all activities specifically tailored for Excel need to be nested within a parent "Use Excel File" activity.

Important note: If the same workflow deals with information from two or more Excel files, a Use Excel Activity has to be used for each file.





